README.md, before:

# MiraKit
Mira's digital display SDK.

This document discusses the various components available to apps written for MiraLink devices.

Mira Apps are responsible for the rendering of presentations created by the user, and define the parameters of those presentations in the Mira Dashboard.

## Table of Contents
1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
1. [The App Bundle](#the-app-bundle)
  - [definition.json](#defintion)
  - [Icons And Thumbnails](#icons-and-thumbnails)
  - [bundle](#the-executable)
1. [The App Life Cycle](#the-app-life-cycle)
  - [The Structure of an App](#the-structure-of-an-app)
  - [States for Apps](#states-for-apps)
1. [Core APIs](#core-apis)
1. [Testing Your Application With the Simulator](#testing-your-application)
1. [Deploying an App](#deploying-an-app)

## Getting Started
MiraKit is available on the npm registry.

To install, use: `npm install --save-dev mira-kit`

## The App Bundle

```bash
/your-app
  definition.json
  icon.svg
  thumbnail.svg
  bundle.js
```

### Definition
* The `definition.json` file contains metadata that defines how the Mira Platform interacts with your app.
* This information includes presentation properties which can be set by your users.
* The dictionary also includes its presentation type, which is used by the system to identify both your app and which presentations it should be launched with.
* **NOTE** We expect that `definition.json` is stored at the root directory of the project. This is where our deploy scripts look for the file.

#### `definition.json` Keys
* `name`
  * type: `string`
  * The plain-text name of your app.
* `presentation_type`
  * type `string`
  * An identifier in the form of `company.app_name`. This must be unique.
* `presentation_properties`
  * type: `list`
  * A list of property definitions. The user-defined values constitute a "presentation" and will be passed to your app as props on launch.
* `allowed_request_domains`
  * type: `list`
  * A list of domains your app will need to access via HTTP/HTTPS.
* `configurable_duration`
  * type: `boolean`
  * Whether or not users can configure the duration of each presentation for your application. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` if your application has a dynamic duration defined by lifecycle_events.
* `default_duration`
  * type: `number`
  * The default duration, in seconds, of your app's presentations.
* `embedded_url_format`
  * type: `string`
  * __Optional.__ A URL format using URL-param syntax: `https://my.service/:some_id?some_flag=:some_flag`. Used for embedded first- and second-party apps only.
* `lifecycle_events`
  * type: `list`
  * __Optional.__ A list of the events that your application triggers via `miraEvents`. The main runtime will only listen for events specified here.
* `strings`

#### Property Definitions
Presentation property definitions are dictionaries that require that you specify the property's `name` and `type`, as well as any optional values that may alter the property's presentation in the Mira dashboard. The possible types of properties are:

- `string`: A short-form string.
  - `secure`: boolean, optional. Secure strings are displayed as password-style inputs.
  - `default`: string, optional. The default value for the string.
  - `placeholder`: string, optional. An optional placeholder for when no text is entered.
- `text`: A long-form string.
  - `default`: string, optional. The default value for the text.
  - `placeholder`: string, optional. An optional placeholder for when no text is entered.
- `datetime`: A date and time. The expected format of the datetime is ISO 8601 (example: `2000-02-01T09:00:00.000Z` is February 1st, 2000 at 9AM UTC)
  - `default`: UTC ISO string, optional. This value will be rendered in the simulator to local time, but passed to the application in UTC.
- `boolean`: A true or false value.
  - `default`: boolean, optional. The default value for the boolean.
- `number`: An `integer` value.
  - `default`: number, optional. The default value for the number.
- `selection`: A series of options.
  - `exclusive`: boolean, optional. Prevents multiple selection.
  - `options`: list, required.
    - `name`: string, required.
    - `value`: string, required.
  - `default`: string, if `exclusive`, or array of strings. The `value` of the default.
- `file`: A file upload.
  - `constraints`: object, optional.
    - `content-types`: list, optional. A set of HTTP Content-Types that your app supports. Defaults to `*`.
    - `content-length`: int, optional. The maximum file size, in bytes, your app supports. Defaults to `100000000`.
    - `url` the url of where the file is stored in s3.
- `link`: A clickable link that will load into the `dashboard`. Takes no user value and is not passed in as a prop to your application.
  - `url`: string, required. The URL to open when clicked.

For example, an Instagram app may have the property `ig_username`:
```json
{"name": "ig_username", "type": "string", "secure": false}
```

The text that is displayed in the dashboard for each property is derived from your app's `strings` defined in the `definition.json` file.

#### Localizable Strings
Localizable text must be placed in the `strings` dictionary inside `definition.json`. The dictionary should map the ISO 639-1 language abbreviation to a dictionary mapping arbitrary string keys to readable, localized values.

```json
{
  "en": {
    "ig_username": "Instagram Username"
  },

  "fr": {
    "ig_username": "Nom d'Utilisateur Instagram"
  }
}
```

Your app's `strings` must include at least one language localization for each property in `presentation_properties`.

For `presentation_properties` of type `selection`, you will also need to include a string in `strings` for each `name` in your list of selectable items.

Additionally, the Mira dashboard will expect your app to define at least one localization for several keys used in describing the app itself.
- `content_type`: The type of data your app handles. For example, the Video Player app's `content_type` in English is "Video", and a restaurant app's `content_type` in English might be "Menu."
- `description`: The plain-text description of your app and what it does.

This file should also include translations of any user-facing text for your app, and will be passed to your app at runtime.

### Icons and Thumbnails
Your app icon is used to represent your app in the Mira dashboard and should be `32pt` square. Its thumbnail is used to represent presentations created for your app and should be `110pt` wide by `62pt` tall. Both files should be SVGs.

### The Executable
_TODO: Add explicit script to create executeable_
The executable file contains your app's transpiled and bundled code. All markup, styling, and logic must be bundled into this file using webpack, Browserify, or some other bundler. The name of this file should be `bundle.js`.

At its top-most level, the file should export a subclass of `React.Component`.

## The App Life Cycle
### The Structure of an App
_NEEDS TO BE RE-WRITTEN TO DISCUSS LIFECYCLE EVENTS_
Every Mira app is rendered in the context defined by the Mira Platform.

On startup, the system loads creates the resources that will be available to your application and passed in as props:
- `applicationVariables` - each `presentation_property` that is filled in, when creating a presentation in the dashboard, will have a corresponding `application_variable` value. This value is passed in as a prop to the application with the prop name identical to its corresponding `presentation_property`.
- `strings`, a representation of your app's `definition strings`. To access a readable string, simply render `strings.your_key_name`, and the correct value will be chosen based on the language at runtime.
- `miraRequestResource` - Your application will have a `miraRequestResource` prop passed in. This prop is a function that is API equivalent to `fetch`. We enforce using this over regular `fetch` and `XMLHttpRequest` in order to optimize requests from MiraLinks and ensure `fetch` requests are made to domains the application has specified are allowed in `allowed_request_domains`.
- `miraFileResource` - Your application will have a `miraFileResource` prop passed in. This function is used to fetch files from the Mira Platform. You simply need to pass in the value of a `file` type presentation property to this function with the request method you would like to use. We support `GET` and `HEAD` as methods. The response of this function is API equivalent to the `fetch` API response.
- `miraEvents` -

### States for Apps
Mira applications trigger lifecycle events which enable the application and the Mira platform to communicate between each other.

- The `presentation_ready` event is triggered by an application when it is ready to start playback on the Mira platform.
 - The Mira platform will respond to the application with a `play` event to indicate the application should begin playback.
- The `presentation_complete` event is triggered by an application when playback on the application is complete. This notifies the Mira platform that it can move to the next presentation.
 - If there is no subsequent application the platform will trigger another play event to loop the current application.

_NOTE: If a duration field is present in application variables, these events will be managed for you and triggered based on the duration set by the user._

## Core APIs
### miraRequestResource
The `miraRequestResource` prop provides an API for making HTTP and HTTPS requests. Requests are limited to allowed domains and file access specified in your app's `info.json` .

The `miraRequestResource` has an identical API to the [whatwg-fetch specification](https://github.github.io/fetch/).

### miraFileResource
The `miraFileResource` prop provides an API to fetch a file that has been uploaded to the Mira platform. This API takes `application variable` for the file you want to request, and the http `method` you want to use to request the object.

### miraEvents
The `miraEvents` prop is an EventEmitter that provides an API for communication between applications and the main runtime.

#### API
Once your application has registered the lifecycle events that it utilizes, see [registering lifecycle events](#registering-lifecycle-events), you can use MiraEvents like below:

Usage:
```js

this.props.miraEvents.trigger('presentation_ready');

this.props.miraEvents.on('play', () => {
  // Play application
});

// Presentation playthrough
this.props.miraEvents.trigger('presentation_complete');
```

#### Event Types
* Presentation Ready
  * A `presentation_ready` event will inform the main runtime that the presentation is ready to be displayed on the screen.
* Play
  * A `play` event will be triggered by the main runtime and can be subscribed to by applications to ensure timely playback.
* Presentation Complete
  * A `presentation_complete` event will inform the main runtime that it the the presentation has completed and can be transitioned away from.

#### Registering Lifecycle Events
To register your lifecycle events, include the events that your application uses in your `definition.json`. Events not registered here will be ignored by the main runtime.

## Testing Your App
You can test your application using the MiraKit simulator.

To set this up you will need to:

1. `npm install mira-kit`
1. Create a `sim` folder in your project root directory.
1. Create an `index.html` file in the `sim` directory. This is used to load the simulator. Example below:
``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="root"></div>
  <!--This should point to where your webpack config points-->
  <script src="dist/bundle.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```
1. Create a `webpack.sim.config` in your project's root directory to use for the simulator. Example below:
``` js
var userConfig = require('./webpack.config.js');
module.exports = options => {
  /* if your project contains externals like React, you can override the
   * value of externals so all dependencies are included in the simulator.
   * React will be available on the Mira Link.
   */
  return Object.assign(userConfig, {
    entry: './sim/main.js',
    externals: {},
  });
};
```
1. Create a `main.js` for the simulator in the `sim` directory. Example below:
``` js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from '../src';
import definition from '../definition.json';
import { simulator } from 'mira-kit';
// END: Done by User
simulator(App, definition);
```
1. Add the following npm script to your `package.json` to run the simulator.
``` json
"sim": "webpack-dev-server --config ./webpack.sim.config --content-base ./sim --env.dev"
```
1. `npm run sim`

## Deploying an App
*TBD*

Commit message:

Update README with deploy instructions Remove unused envs from deploy.js

README.md, after:

# MiraKit
Mira's digital display SDK.

This document discusses the various components available to apps written for MiraLink devices.

Mira Apps are responsible for the rendering of presentations created by the user, and define the parameters of those presentations in the Mira Dashboard.

## Table of Contents
1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
1. [The App Bundle](#the-app-bundle)
  - [definition.json](#defintion)
  - [Icons And Thumbnails](#icons-and-thumbnails)
  - [bundle](#the-executable)
1. [The App Life Cycle](#the-app-life-cycle)
  - [The Structure of an App](#the-structure-of-an-app)
  - [States for Apps](#states-for-apps)
1. [Core APIs](#core-apis)
1. [Testing Your Application With the Simulator](#testing-your-application)
1. [Deploying an App](#deploying-an-app)

## Getting Started
MiraKit is available on the npm registry.

To install, use: `npm install --save-dev mira-kit`

## The App Bundle

```bash
/your-app
  definition.json
  icon.svg
  thumbnail.svg
  bundle.js
```

### Definition
* The `definition.json` file contains metadata that defines how the Mira Platform interacts with your app.
* This information includes presentation properties which can be set by your users.
* The dictionary also includes its presentation type, which is used by the system to identify both your app and which presentations it should be launched with.
* **NOTE** We expect that `definition.json` is stored at the root directory of the project. This is where our deploy scripts look for the file.

#### `definition.json` Keys
* `name`
  * type: `string`
  * The plain-text name of your app.
* `presentation_type`
  * type `string`
  * An identifier in the form of `company.app_name`. This must be unique.
* `presentation_properties`
  * type: `list`
  * A list of property definitions. The user-defined values constitute a "presentation" and will be passed to your app as props on launch.
* `allowed_request_domains`
  * type: `list`
  * A list of domains your app will need to access via HTTP/HTTPS.
* `configurable_duration`
  * type: `boolean`
  * Whether or not users can configure the duration of each presentation for your application. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` if your application has a dynamic duration defined by lifecycle_events.
* `default_duration`
  * type: `number`
  * The default duration, in seconds, of your app's presentations.
* `embedded_url_format`
  * type: `string`
  * __Optional.__ A URL format using URL-param syntax: `https://my.service/:some_id?some_flag=:some_flag`. Used for embedded first- and second-party apps only.
* `lifecycle_events`
  * type: `list`
  * __Optional.__ A list of the events that your application triggers via `miraEvents`. The main runtime will only listen for events specified here.
* `strings`

#### Property Definitions
Presentation property definitions are dictionaries that require that you specify the property's `name` and `type`, as well as any optional values that may alter the property's presentation in the Mira dashboard. The possible types of properties are:

- `string`: A short-form string.
  - `secure`: boolean, optional. Secure strings are displayed as password-style inputs.
  - `default`: string, optional. The default value for the string.
  - `placeholder`: string, optional. An optional placeholder for when no text is entered.
- `text`: A long-form string.
  - `default`: string, optional. The default value for the text.
  - `placeholder`: string, optional. An optional placeholder for when no text is entered.
- `datetime`: A date and time. The expected format of the datetime is ISO 8601 (example: `2000-02-01T09:00:00.000Z` is February 1st, 2000 at 9AM UTC)
  - `default`: UTC ISO string, optional. This value will be rendered in the simulator to local time, but passed to the application in UTC.
- `boolean`: A true or false value.
  - `default`: boolean, optional. The default value for the boolean.
- `number`: An `integer` value.
  - `default`: number, optional. The default value for the number.
- `selection`: A series of options.
  - `exclusive`: boolean, optional. Prevents multiple selection.
  - `options`: list, required.
    - `name`: string, required.
    - `value`: string, required.
  - `default`: string, if `exclusive`, or array of strings. The `value` of the default.
- `file`: A file upload.
  - `constraints`: object, optional.
    - `content-types`: list, optional. A set of HTTP Content-Types that your app supports. Defaults to `*`.
    - `content-length`: int, optional. The maximum file size, in bytes, your app supports. Defaults to `100000000`.
    - `url` the url of where the file is stored in s3.
- `link`: A clickable link that will load into the `dashboard`. Takes no user value and is not passed in as a prop to your application.
  - `url`: string, required. The URL to open when clicked.

For example, an Instagram app may have the property `ig_username`:
```json
{"name": "ig_username", "type": "string", "secure": false}
```

The text that is displayed in the dashboard for each property is derived from your app's `strings` defined in the `definition.json` file.

#### Localizable Strings
Localizable text must be placed in the `strings` dictionary inside `definition.json`. The dictionary should map the ISO 639-1 language abbreviation to a dictionary mapping arbitrary string keys to readable, localized values.

```json
{
  "en": {
    "ig_username": "Instagram Username"
  },

  "fr": {
    "ig_username": "Nom d'Utilisateur Instagram"
  }
}
```

Your app's `strings` must include at least one language localization for each property in `presentation_properties`.

For `presentation_properties` of type `selection`, you will also need to include a string in `strings` for each `name` in your list of selectable items.

Additionally, the Mira dashboard will expect your app to define at least one localization for several keys used in describing the app itself.
- `content_type`: The type of data your app handles. For example, the Video Player app's `content_type` in English is "Video", and a restaurant app's `content_type` in English might be "Menu."
- `description`: The plain-text description of your app and what it does.

This file should also include translations of any user-facing text for your app, and will be passed to your app at runtime.

### Icons and Thumbnails
Your app icon is used to represent your app in the Mira dashboard and should be `32pt` square. Its thumbnail is used to represent presentations created for your app and should be `110pt` wide by `62pt` tall. Both files should be SVGs.

### The Executable
_TODO: Add explicit script to create executeable_
The executable file contains your app's transpiled and bundled code. All markup, styling, and logic must be bundled into this file using webpack, Browserify, or some other bundler. The name of this file should be `bundle.js`.

At its top-most level, the file should export a subclass of `React.Component`.

## The App Life Cycle
### The Structure of an App
_NEEDS TO BE RE-WRITTEN TO DISCUSS LIFECYCLE EVENTS_
Every Mira app is rendered in the context defined by the Mira Platform.

On startup, the system loads creates the resources that will be available to your application and passed in as props:
- `applicationVariables` - each `presentation_property` that is filled in, when creating a presentation in the dashboard, will have a corresponding `application_variable` value. This value is passed in as a prop to the application with the prop name identical to its corresponding `presentation_property`.
- `strings`, a representation of your app's `definition strings`. To access a readable string, simply render `strings.your_key_name`, and the correct value will be chosen based on the language at runtime.
- `miraRequestResource` - Your application will have a `miraRequestResource` prop passed in. This prop is a function that is API equivalent to `fetch`. We enforce using this over regular `fetch` and `XMLHttpRequest` in order to optimize requests from MiraLinks and ensure `fetch` requests are made to domains the application has specified are allowed in `allowed_request_domains`.
- `miraFileResource` - Your application will have a `miraFileResource` prop passed in. This function is used to fetch files from the Mira Platform. You simply need to pass in the value of a `file` type presentation property to this function with the request method you would like to use. We support `GET` and `HEAD` as methods. The response of this function is API equivalent to the `fetch` API response.
- `miraEvents` -

### States for Apps
Mira applications trigger lifecycle events which enable the application and the Mira platform to communicate between each other.

- The `presentation_ready` event is triggered by an application when it is ready to start playback on the Mira platform.
 - The Mira platform will respond to the application with a `play` event to indicate the application should begin playback.
- The `presentation_complete` event is triggered by an application when playback on the application is complete. This notifies the Mira platform that it can move to the next presentation.
 - If there is no subsequent application the platform will trigger another play event to loop the current application.

_NOTE: If a duration field is present in application variables, these events will be managed for you and triggered based on the duration set by the user._

## Core APIs
### miraRequestResource
The `miraRequestResource` prop provides an API for making HTTP and HTTPS requests. Requests are limited to allowed domains and file access specified in your app's `info.json` .

The `miraRequestResource` has an identical API to the [whatwg-fetch specification](https://github.github.io/fetch/).

### miraFileResource
The `miraFileResource` prop provides an API to fetch a file that has been uploaded to the Mira platform. This API takes `application variable` for the file you want to request, and the http `method` you want to use to request the object.

### miraEvents
The `miraEvents` prop is an EventEmitter that provides an API for communication between applications and the main runtime.

#### API
Once your application has registered the lifecycle events that it utilizes, see [registering lifecycle events](#registering-lifecycle-events), you can use MiraEvents like below:

Usage:
```js

this.props.miraEvents.trigger('presentation_ready');

this.props.miraEvents.on('play', () => {
  // Play application
});

// Presentation playthrough
this.props.miraEvents.trigger('presentation_complete');
```

#### Event Types
* Presentation Ready
  * A `presentation_ready` event will inform the main runtime that the presentation is ready to be displayed on the screen.
* Play
  * A `play` event will be triggered by the main runtime and can be subscribed to by applications to ensure timely playback.
* Presentation Complete
  * A `presentation_complete` event will inform the main runtime that it the the presentation has completed and can be transitioned away from.

#### Registering Lifecycle Events
To register your lifecycle events, include the events that your application uses in your `definition.json`. Events not registered here will be ignored by the main runtime.

## Testing Your App
You can test your application using the MiraKit simulator.

To set this up you will need to:

1. `npm install mira-kit`
1. Create a `sim` folder in your project root directory.
1. Create an `index.html` file in the `sim` directory. This is used to load the simulator. Example below:
``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div id="root"></div>
  <!--This should point to where your webpack config points-->
  <script src="dist/bundle.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```
1. Create a `webpack.sim.config` in your project's root directory to use for the simulator. Example below:
``` js
var userConfig = require('./webpack.config.js');
module.exports = options => {
  /* if your project contains externals like React, you can override the
   * value of externals so all dependencies are included in the simulator.
   * React will be available on the Mira Link.
   */
  return Object.assign(userConfig, {
    entry: './sim/main.js',
    externals: {},
  });
};
```
1. Create a `main.js` for the simulator in the `sim` directory. Example below:
``` js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from '../src';
import definition from '../definition.json';
import { simulator } from 'mira-kit';
// END: Done by User
simulator(App, definition);
```
1. Add the following npm script to your `package.json` to run the simulator.
``` json
"sim": "webpack-dev-server --config ./webpack.sim.config --content-base ./sim --env.dev"
```
1. `npm run sim`

## Deploying an App
MiraKit comes with a deploy script to help publish your application to the Mira Platform. Once published to our platform you can test you application on one of your Mira Links to see it running live on a device.

In order to publish an application you must do the following.

1. Retrieve an application identifier from Mira. To do this, contact the Mira representative you are working with to build your application.
1. Build your application into a `bundle.js` and store it in a `dist/` directory at the root of the project. The following is the file structure MiraKit's deploy script expects after your project is built.
  ```
  # Expected project directory structure
  - root directory of project
    - package.json
    - definition.json
    - dist/
      - bundle.js # Required: built src of your project.
      - icon.svg # Optional: icon image used in dashboard for your application.
      - thumbnail.svg # Optional: thumbnail imaged used in dashboard for presentations made from your application.
    - all other project files
  ```
1. Configure `package.json` to have a `deploy` npm script. Exmaple below:
  ``` json
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "mira-kit-deploy"
  }
  ```
1. Run the MiraKit deploy script. `MIRA_USER_NAME='username' MIRA_USER_PASSWORD='password' MIRA_APP_ID='ApplicationId' npm run deploy`
